Apache Mesos is an open source cluster manager developed at UC Berkeley. It provides resource isolation and sharing across distributed applications.\nThe figure shows the main components of Mesos. Mesos consists of a master daemon that manages slave daemons running on each cluster node. Mesos frameworks are applications that run on Mesos and run tasks on these slaves. Slaves are either physical or virtual machines, typically from the same provider.\nMesos uses a two-level scheduling mechanism where resource offers are made to frameworks. The Mesos master node decides how many resources to offer each framework, while each framework determines the resources it accepts and what application to execute on those resources.\nMarathon is a container orchestration platform running on Mesos. Multiple container formats are supported and Docker is certainly the most common one!\nThis blog will show how to setup Mesos, Marathon, and run a simple Docker image. This setup is only for the brave of heart. I’m always interested in looking under the hood and that’s what motivated this post. But a future post will show a more seamless install.\nLet’s get started!\nDownload CentOS and configure the VM as shown:\nInstall the different components required for this setup.\nInstall Mesos and Marathon: \n and choose the network interface enabled during CentOS installation.\nA simple Docker-based application is defined using the configuration file. Marathon runs on port 8080 and so the updated configuration file looks like:\nDeploy the application as:\n and then the application could be successfully deployed.\nIn our case, master and slave are running on the same machine, and so the list of Docker images and running containers can be easily seen:\nAs you can see, this is quite an involving setup. A future blog post will show how to use DC/OS and set this up more seamlessly.\nMesos slack channel is awesome! Particularly I learned a lot about Mesos from @jgarcia.mesosphere, @akaplan.mesosphere, @harpreet.mesosphere, @graham.mesosphere. Thanks guys, keep up on engaging with the community!
